Quick Start
This guide shows you how to create an application that uses the Node.js driver to connect 
to MongoDB Atlas cluster + CLOUD HOST

The Node.js driver is an interface through which you can connect to and communicate with MongoDB instances.


MongoDB Atlas is a fully-managed cloud database service that hosts your data on MongoDB instances.
 We show you how to get started with your own free (no credit card required) instance in this guide.

Follow the steps below to connect your Node.js application with a MongoDB instance.

Set up Your Project
Install Node and NPM
Ensure your system has Node.js version 10 or later and a compatible version of NPM (Node Package Manager)
 installed.

Initialize the Project
After you verify that you installed the required versions of Node and NPM, create a new project.

First, create a directory for your project in your command line interface:

mkdir node_quickstart

Then, navigate into that directory so you can work directly with your project's files:

cd node_quickstart

Next, set up NPM for your project by running the following command. 

npm init -y

NOTE
Why the -y?
If you specify the -y option in the command, NPM automatically accepts the default values for the command. Omit the -y flag to interactively select your project settings.

Add MongoDB as a Dependency
Next, add the official Node.js MongoDB driver to your project dependencies. 

npm install mongodb


At this point, you should have appropriate versions of Node.js and NPM installed as well as a 
project directory that contains the dependencies you need to use the Node.js MongoDB driver.

Create a MongoDB Cluster
Set up a Free Tier Cluster in Atlas
After installing the Node MongoDB driver, create a MongoDB instance to store and manage your data. 
Complete the Get Started with Atlas guide to set up a new Atlas account, free tier cluster 
(MongoDB instance), load datasets, and interact with the data.

After completing the steps in the Atlas guide, you should have a new MongoDB cluster deployed in Atlas, 
a new database user, and sample datasets loaded into your cluster.

Connect to your Cluster
In this step, we create and run an application that uses the Node.js MongoDB driver to connect to your 
instance of MongoDB and run a query on the sample data.

We pass instructions to the driver on where and how to connect to your MongoDB instance in a string 
called the connection string. 
This string includes information on the hostname or IP address and port of your instance, 
authentication mechanism, user credentials when applicable, and other connection options.

To retrieve your connection string for the instance and user you created in the previous step,
 log into your Atlas account and navigate to the Clusters section and click the Connect button 
 for the cluster that you want to connect to as shown below.

The connect button in the clusters section of the Atlas UI
click to enlarge
Proceed to the Connect Your Application step and select the Node.js driver. Select the 
"Connection String Only" tab and click the Copy button to copy the connection string to your clipboard 
as shown below.

The connection string copy button in the Connection String Only tab of the Atlas UI
click to enlarge
Save your connection string to a safe location that you can access in the next step.

Next, create a file to contain your application called index.js in your node_quickstart directory.
Add the following code, replacing the uri variable with your connection string. 
Make sure to replace the "<password>" section of the connection string with the password you
 created for your user that has atlasAdmin permissions.

const { MongoClient } = require("mongodb");
// Replace the uri string with your MongoDB deployment's connection string.
const uri =
  "mongodb+srv://<user>:<password>@<cluster-url>?retryWrites=true&writeConcern=majority";
const client = new MongoClient(uri);
async function run() {
  try {
    await client.connect();
    const database = client.db('sample_mflix');
    const collection = database.collection('movies');
    // Query for a movie that has the title 'Back to the Future'
    const query = { title: 'Back to the Future' };
    const movie = await collection.findOne(query);
    console.log(movie);
  } finally {
    // Ensures that the client will close when you finish/error
    await client.close();
  }
}
run().catch(console.dir);

Run the sample code with the following command from your command line:

node index.js

When you run the command, the sample code should output the details of the movie which resembles 
the following:

{
  _id: ...,
  plot: 'A young man is accidentally sent 30 years into the past...',
  genres: [ 'Adventure', 'Comedy', 'Sci-Fi' ],
  ...
  title: 'Back to the Future',
  ...
}

If or receive an error, check whether you included the proper connection string in the application code, 
and loaded the sample dataset in your Atlas cluster.

After completing this step, you should have a working application that uses the Node.js driver 
to connect to your MongoDB instance, run a query on the sample data, and prints out the result.

Next Steps
Learn how to read and modify data using the Node.js driver in our CRUD Operations guide or how to
 perform common operations in our usage examples.